Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
This is Darren bond.
The fearless leader
of our story.
A very adventurous character.
Referred to around
these parts as "boombah".
Marlon Perkins was this guy
that does these wildlife shows
back in the 70s and 803
and whatever I grew up with.
White-haired.
elegant-looking guy. anyway...
He was always standing
from a distance.
and he had
his trusted companion.
who was this
big barrel-chested guy.
He was down there. like.
wrestling with a grizzly
while Marlon Perkins
was way up somewhere.
"oh. and look at him!
He's wrestling
with the grizzly bear!"
That's what it feels like
with you guys.
I'm wrestling the grizzly
by jumping off of this
while you guys
safely stand in the tower.
Darren is often
pegged as a workaholic...
Who made a living
from building Bridges.
You want it.
I hook this big one...
Does this feel about right?
Hey! Did you pay the insurance?
Hey. first time I was up here.
took me 15 minutes
and I would refuse to jump.
Look out!
There we go.
It doesn't look like much
when you're down here.
My impression of Darren bond
is something. uh...
That's really hard
to describe with words. um...
Darren was actually
kind of a... a nerdy kid.
What it is... is the alien
takes over this guy's body.
but he's conscious and is still
in his... in his head. right?
But he's trapped.
So he's got this.
it's like this room
with all these... this stuff.
and it's all his baggage.
and all of his.
you know. everything
he's done and everything.
And that's what it feels like
when you come in the bunker.
kind of like it's my brain.
He was born an okie
and he still resides
in Oklahoma.
Surrounded by cattle. forests.
fields and a fully
nuclear bunker
with a hidden library
surrounded by an art gallery
attached to a mid-century
Italian chapel.
It's Darren's sanctuary.
For philosophy. art...
And life.
I guess to understand Mr. Bond
just a little bit better.
I'll need to show you
the hidden world
of the esoteric bunker.
[Lively music playing
Hey. I'm not
a professional. you know.
I live in the middle of nowhere.
This crazy bunker
that Darren has.
that the walls
are lined with books.
and it's dark
but it's so unique and so cool.
The bunker blew my mind.
I was like. it was insane.
The top side. you know.
in the regular building.
there's like.
this church that's in there too.
where I guess
people get married.
So much stuff
that's artwork in there.
it's like.
a lot to absorb. right?
Like. every time
you're in there.
you see something new
that you didn't see before.
Basically. it's got Satan
chained down in the middle.
for the chains.
and then in the middle
the quo represents the serpent.
Each room is like
its own unique thing.
It's the idea
that we live a physical life
in a material world.
If the rain comes.
it makes a mud hole.
and we have to fight through it.
so we have all these things
that we're dealing with
in the world
that the physical world...
But yet what do we
really aspire to?
What are the things
that really move us?
And the things
that move us are...
Is kind of represented
by the term esoteric.
which. it could be anything.
It could be an idea.
it could be a religion.
it could be a...
A narrative of your history.
or whatever.
or it could be art or music.
For this music festival.
that was the esoteric part.
to enjoy this music
together as a community.
None of us
are getting out of this alive.
So it's how we live
that makes a difference.
You gotta take
the good with the bad.
and turn what looks bad
into something good.
The meaning of the bunker part
is the idea
that we pull into ourselves.
I mean. this is
a physical representation.
If you think you could
be saved by being in a bunker.
you're completely wrong.
Being in the bunker
might make you last
a couple extra weeks.
but it's not going to save you.
and you can't be saved
by being in a bunker anywhere.
That's probably the realization
when it comes to...
I believe in being prepared
for anything.
but you're not gonna
save yourself inside
if you don't have friends
communing around you.
that's what we're creating.
Community is
so the bunker mentality
is something
that we all embrace at times.
it's my tribe
against your tribe.
my country against your country.
And the...
That's part of our ego.
Our ego is there for a reason.
It allows us to survive.
but we have to let go of it
and realize
that we're all the same.
We're all connected.
we are all one.
And if you realize that.
and even apply a little bit
of that thinking to your life.
hopefully it will
help you help us all.
Darren does
some really cool stuff.
His mind never shuts off.
I don't see how the guy sleeps.
Hey. you want
some razzle-dazzle?
How's that?
Darren's got a mind of his own.
He's got some sort of
creativity bug in him
that I can't even
put my finger on.
He had started thinking about
having a music
festival out here.
It is a form of art.
and it's the one
that probably permeates
our daily life
more than anything.
Darren came to me
about three years ago.
I'd say.
wanting to do this thing.
He had an idea for a festival
on his property.
A co-worker asked me
if I wanted to come out
to this guy's property.
about an hour.
hour and a half away
from downtown Oklahoma city.
to see if I thought.
logistically.
it was something
that we could pull off...
Within six to seven months.
A guy by the name
of mikael called me
and he said "I'm planning
to do a festival.
Do you have time to go look
at the property next week?"
It's located
in between shawnee and Ada.
a town called Asher.
Just south ofasher. actually.
We get out there.
it's this beautiful
1400-acre ranch.
Down his driveway.
it's two miles.
and I'm like "oh my god.
I'm in the middle of nowhere."
It's just massive.
I hear about all these buildings
and all these things
that this guy's built.
Honestly. I didn't believe him.
His brain thinks so much
and he has all this stuff
laying around.
and you're like.
"what is all this stuff for?".
and then you'll stumble
upon 50 safes
that he's made. like.
artwork out of.
and you're like
"man. this dude is great."
It's a really cool bar.
I can definitely
picture myself sitting in there
and drinking
a good old-fashioned
or some bourbon in there.
you know?
My mind was blown.
Getting the lay of the land.
going a mile
toward the Canadian river.
going a mile to the highway
that's just west
of where we're at.
And I... I still haven't seen
all the... the whole property.
It's just.
every time you turn a corner.
there's something
that you've never seen before.
This is a Jewel that I bought.
that put in
our little Halloween...
Haunted forest or whatever.
It's not gonna be. uh.
it's gonna be right over there.
It's just a little area
for some of our ghouls
to run around
and. uh. chase people.
Kind of reminds me the...
That truck on...
Uh. jeepers creepers.
that movie?
Where that guy.
that strange creature
has that truck that he drives
around and nabs everybody.
We kind of realized early
on that he had something cool.
You know. we wanted to be
a part. but the. you know.
the overall vision
wasn't there yet.
We said go. and then
since we're gonna do this.
the question was. could we do
something quick enough now
to actually ha...
Make it happen this year.
was it gonna just need
to flow to next year.
I think we kind of
wanted to make it
a little bit smaller at first.
than he was trying to go.
But we decided to do a 5000-ish
capacity music festival.
If it's a first time for them
to throw a music festival.
some of the questions
we... we tend to have is. uh...
I hope these people know
what they're getting
themselves into.
Hoping they understand
the amount of money
they're about to spend
to do the show.
We wanted this to be
something unique for Oklahoma.
something that hasn't
really been here before.
Different sized stages.
where we could put stages.
where they would need roads.
where they could utilize
some of these giant structures
that Darren
already had in place.
Taking an empty field
and turning it into essentially
a small city for a weekend.
takes a lot.
He wanted it to be edm.
Why edm?
Well. uh.
that's just what we chose.
I hadn't... it's not like that
was my genre. preferred genre.
I don't know that much about it.
I know nothing about edm.
I had never heard edm music
before in my life until Friday.
I'd heard that this event
was gonna be edm music.
and I'd still never heard edm.
It doesn't matter
whether you're
a country fan. alternative.
Edm is... those people
are very hardcore
about their music.
and I appreciate that
because I like my music
and it motivates me
and inspires me
and does all those things.
And so I saw that in him too.
I like these festivals.
because people come here
because they
truly love the music.
It's loud. it's rad.
Well. there's a lot of rhythm
and beat to it.
and if you sit there
and listen to it long enough.
without ever hearing it before.
you'll find yourself
starting to move.
When people say
you need to be zigging.
I'm usually zagging.
so there... there you go.
Every two weeks.
every three weeks.
they'd hit me up and say.
"okay. we've gotten
to this point.
can we come chat
about this with you now?
Like. we want to put a pad
out there in the field
for the stage line to go on.
What size pad do we need
if we want to be doing shows
five years from now."
And I'm like. "holy cow."
And. uh. every time
we went out there.
we gave the guys advice
and. um. Darren
would roll with it.
We knew
that we're gonna basically go
from our barns and office here
and go... go to the west.
use that space
of about 20. 30 acres.
And so what did we need to do?
Well. we needed
to change the grass.
We had a kind... type of
grass growing in there
that's built for hay.
it's not built to get a good.
you know. mat of cool grass
underneath your feet.
I gotta run
and get some. uh. tools.
I'll be right back.
I'll let you help me.
He did it all right.
Whatever advice we gave him.
he'd show up two weeks later.
the work was done.
If there anyone interested.
basically. this is
a John deere excavator.
and I'm. uh. gonna throw
some trees over the fence.
and that'd be an easy cleanup.
We own this. uh.
this is part of our. uh.
work tools
that we use to clear land
and dig the dirt
that we built the roads out of.
I gotta be
a little careful here.
because that pipe you see. uh.
by the excavator is actually
a well... a well head.
That's our new well
that we built. uh.
to provide a...
Provide some extra water
for the... for the site.
Uh. we had to put...
Install the system
so that we could put
in our new grass.
So we got our new grass in
and it's... it's in place
and we've been growing
on it this season.
It looks pretty good.
but it'll be really good
by sometime next year.
This area over
to my left is. um.
backstage of the...
Our main stage.
uh. still needs
to be cleaned up.
You know. once
we kind of finally got
the ball rolling
with the artists.
everything kind of
took off from there.
Landing a headliner
like zeds dead and. uh. kayzo.
and some of the other acts
that we had. you know.
definitely gave us
the momentum to push forward.
All of our possible.
you know. uh.
themes or whatever would be
some Halloween orientation.
and then edm fit
that fairly well.
We were talking about. uh.
where to put
some of the zombie props
for these performing artists.
Yeah. Yeah. and we're...
Okay. so...
So on the zombie stuff.
I want to... I'll get some
meat cleaver-looking things.
and we'll. like. get the bl...
I don't. I know nothing...
To buy me fake blood.
But... oh. I'm sorry...
But. like. uh...
Yeah. you've gotta deal
with the blood.
Oh. okay. so like. you know.
packing all over that.
I'll definitely throw some
blood all over this stuff.
Okay. Cool.
So this is going to be something
like universal studios
fright night.
or whatever they call it.
where they run around with
meat cleavers chasing people?
Umnpmn I'm hoping so.
We started designing
the daybreak setup.
the stage setup. with the...
The masked-out video wall
with the circle truss around it.
the... the fire.
and I would say by... by August.
all the final designs
were submitted.
and we chose
what we were gonna do.
And it was go time.
We just had to wait until
October to execute a show.
Today's October 22nd.
As of four hours ago.
we have less
than 48 hours until doors.
We got rain
within the past 24 hours.
we had a tornado touch down
within two miles
of this location.
So we're kind of still dealing
with a little bit of issues
in regards to some of. uh.
the infrastructure
we have built.
The artists are coming.
and they're going to be here
whether we're ready or not.
so it's kind of like.
what can you prioritize
and get done
in the least amount of time.
You know. there are
a couple of places
where we could add
a little more surface course.
just in case we get
some unexpected weather.
I don't know whether
it was the right thing to do
or the wrong thing to do.
It was gonna be
a huge undertaking.
but with Darren's skillset.
I felt like. and I still
feel like it's something
that we're going
to be able to manage.
Music industry.
when the doors open at four.
the doors open at four.
You can't have. you know.
in this case we'll probably have
at least
3000 people at the gate.
We can't be
not opening the doors.
that's just gonna create issues
and. uh. hopefully we...
I know we can tackle those
issues if they arise.
but I would rather... rather
not have to leap that hurdle.
I... there's
a story about buddy.
I got. uh. a lot of the...
A lot of the stuff that I'm
incorporating in the buildings
came from a particular
junkyard in Ada.
When they sold
the property and left.
left their dogs...
Left three dogs there.
and even after a year.
being abandoned.
buddy was the only one
that survived.
So anyway.
when I got thejunk I. uh...
I took some dog food
and coaxed him
into finally. uh.
getting close to me.
then I got
to know him a little bit.
and about a week later.
I snatched him up.
put him in the pickup
and he came back here
and seems to enjoy it.
We're glad to have him.
Right. buddy? Come here!
Come on!
Are you moving slow today? Huh?
Huh?
Stuff that. uh.
they use at the. uh.
at the music festivals
is three phased.
So we had. uh.
uh. did some kind of...
I don't know what it was.
some kind of convertor
or something to make it work.
Otherwise they were gonna have
to spend 360.000 dollars
to actually bring three bays
all the way to here.
But anyway. we got it going.
so hopefully when we plug it
in here in a couple of days.
it'll all work.
But that's what I know
about electricity.
J“ hey brother. it's time
to put your hands on j“
j“ because we're building
a stage to stand on j“
j“ oh. we 're building
j“ getting taller and taller j“
Some of the challenges
that we started facing
along the way
was getting this venue
built up from scratch.
80 building the stages
was most priority.
We saw the chances of rain.
They were started looking out
10 days or two weeks.
which didn't mean anything.
but when you get down
to the last week.
you can see
that we definitely had a day
that we're gonna be impacted.
but I didn't... didn't worry
about it really much then.
because I thought
our impact was gonna be
on setup day
on Thursday. mainly.
About eight o'clock.
you could hear
the first raindrops falling.
which we expected.
but then it started.
October being
the second-wettest month
of the year here in Oklahoma.
and we laughed about it.
we were like "we'll be fine.
man. we'll be fine."
And nine inches of rain later...
It was the second-wettest
month in Oklahoma.
Wednesday night.
the bottom falls out.
and it just pours.
Called battle.
and we made the call
to go ahead and set the stage.
Wednesday night
at 10:30 with no light.
it started raining.
When it started
raining so early.
so hard. that was
when I was concerned.
We were literally walking into
the perfect storm. essentially.
This is big creek.
It's a little bit bigger
than it normally is.
it really is normally
not very big at all.
but. uh. got a little...
Kind of shows
that we did get
a little bit of rain.
Oklahoma weather changes
in a matter of 30 minutes.
I'm sure
it does everywhere else.
but in Oklahoma
it... it can be heaven or hell
within 30 minutes.
anditcan be unprecedented.
no warning whatsoever.
My guys show up in the bus.
and I show up.
and the field is just muddy.
That looks a lot of water.
doesn't it?
It looks like. uh. our pipe
got broke or something.
probably. out there
in the middle of the...
Middle of the sand.
and so the drainage
pipe got stuck.
Oh. loo... hey. look.
it's bubbling over there!
Well. rain's an issue
with any property
because nobody likes
to. obviously.
stand in mud
or water to do anything.
It makes everything complicated.
We do have certain segments
of the ground that we prepared.
that we put new soil on.
to grow better grass.
And so those tend
to be a little muddier.
And it's just gonna be
a long day.
The parking crew are gonna
have to work really slow.
Right. what... what...
What we need to do is.
we need to make sure that...
That... that we're gonna...
We're g...
We'll create some exits
and our entrances
or whatever off
of... of the areas
that we want them to go.
I just made
the common... I was like.
"well. you see. this big giant.
like. two-and-a-half-inch.
three-inch rock here.
if you could get
a lot of that here.
we'd probably be able
to at least work back and forth
and... and get
stuff to the stage.
and get it installed.
and as stuff dries up.
we'll be able to use
that element of the show
and in... incorporate it
into the stage.
Oh. you know the roads
are relatively stable
but. you know.
the back stage is a bit. um...
No. it's... you go over there.
it's... it's gets messed up.
so we gotta fix it.
so they can
do their thing there. and...
I would like all five of 'em.
and then... and then. uh.
depending on our needs
we'll probably just turn around
and go do another...
Another round or two.
Gonna call my dozer guy
and see what kind of rock
he's been getting
from one quarry.
We got five more trucks
coming from another quarry.
So we've. uh...
Got about twelve trucks
making two or three rounds.
so we'll have forty...
Four days over
at forty loads of rock
to use wherever we need it.
No joke. fifteen.
twenty minutes later...
Dump trucks
and semi-folds of rock show up.
I'll get out of your way.
and you just bring the lot
around there to that dozer.
he's gonna help you dump there
in the middle of the road.
Spending all the extra money
on. you know...
Whether or not
it's my money or not.
just trying
to watch out for Darren
and being as up front
as possible as. you know.
this is going
to cost a lot more money
to keep this thing going.
I'm not
that worried about the product
one way or the other.
just availability
and get it here so we can
put it in the right spot. so...
But anyway. yeah.
I'll wait for you
and I'll... I'll...
Uh. it's electronic dance music.
um. got about 75 bands.
and we're gonna have
several thousand
people for sure.
but. uh. other than that...
It's gonna look...
It's gonna be fun.
but it's... it's not...
It's not exactly
what you wanted.
You don't want
the flood the day before.
but I mean.
all things considered.
I'm... we're in...
We're in decent shape.
It's been better.
I got... we got. like.
trucks out the wazoo now.
I don't know how many we need.
but I'll probably get us
at least four loads
of. uh... of mulch.
that way we can put it
in different places
for foot traffic.
Hey guys!
On that... is that y'all's?
Are you all driving this?
Y'all driving that?
Okay. Thank you.
I'm enjoying interacting
with the... the people
that are coming here.
you know. uh. once we kind of
get out of the crisis mode.
hopefully.
Uh. but we've got
everything stabilized right now
fairly well. I think.
for what we're doing here.
with our vendors
and getting our artists in.
and getting
production stuff going.
so I'm comfortable with that.
but then the...
The challenge will be...
Uh...
This thing's. uh...
When... when everybody
gets here.
When you get. you know.
hundreds of cars here.
and they start pulling them in.
then it'll be... they'll be
different challenges.
So we have nine.
ten. eleven. twelve...
We have 14 trucks running.
Who's in my spot?
Yes. that's your spot?
- That's my spot. man!
- Oh. you want it back?
Who are you? Come on!
- Tell me who you are!
- Skyler.
Skyler.
nice to meet you. Skyler.
I'm a merchandise
vendor; I'm with deval Chicago.
If you need it. you can have it.
We're temporarily sitting here.
I'm trying to figure out...
Stay there.
I'll go some place else.
Typically
if we do. like. an arena show.
you can flip 30 trucks
in five or six hours.
Out there.
'cause of the elements.
everything was coming
off the truck by what...
What we call an "off-road."
"forklift." or a "lull."
Each semi was
about three to four hours
at a time to offload it.
You're only able
to do two cases at a time.
and then get it
over to the stage.
cause the... the semis
were stuck in mud.
Uh. so we were unable
to back 'em up to the stage
like we typically
would to offload them.
It really slowed
down the loading time.
and it made it. uh
just like a fourteen-hour day.
And we still
didn't get everything done.
in that first day.
There was no way
for us to prepare
what we were
getting ourselves into.
Daybreak? Oh. man.
It's been a wild ride.
I'll be honest.
like. get here. you know?
It's raining. pouring down.
We roll up. this guy
named Paul picked us up
in a pickup truck lift.
I've never been
in a truck lift in my life.
by the way.
But... so we roll up
through the mud. you know.
trucking through. four...
Like. four wheel drive.
getting here.
Pull up. hop out the car.
he says "welcome to Oklahoma."
Whenever you have
thousands of pounds of gear.
coming out of semis.
it's hard to get
across a muddy field
to deliver the product
that you're trying to
to those stages.
and make it flow
the way it should.
I... I drove around
with a couple people
in the truck...
Uh. assessed what was happening
and what was about to happen.
and. I just.
physically and financially
thought it was gonna be
really difficult
to make the show go on.
We couldn't even get
the semis to the loading dock.
'cause the semis were
getting stuck in the mud.
The off-road forklifts
were getting stuck.
And they were having to
pull them out with bulldozers.
The only thing
that we didn't foresee
was the... the weather.
After doing it for twelve years.
I've never seen
a festival ground so wet.
Knowing how long
it had taken on the build.
just to build one stage.
the main stage.
and. like. all the things
that weren't going to. like.
be able to fire off
that night. like.
I just did not see
it all working out.
I've seen festivals shut down
because they weren't prepared
for this type of stuff.
This is a classic
three-act play. whatever.
- Exactly. exactly. go.
- Setup. conflict. resolution.
Sure. no problem there.
All right.
80 this is the climax right now?
- This is the conflict.
- Ooh.
One. one after the other.
it's roads.
and then it's fire marshal.
and then it's lasers.
and then it's pyro.
I was completely
determined to see it through.
because the biggest fail
that I could have
as the guy running it
was to cancel it.
We couldn't do that.
and we didn't want to do that.
because these people
were here to see the music.
I felt like we need
to shut it down.
it felt like. um...
Ours getting.
like. blasted with people.
like. you know. like.
hit me up. "what's going on?
I'm trying to get in.
I can't. 'cause people
are getting stuck."
You need to think about this.
you know. you didn't...
You need to think
about cancelling. potentially.
I don't know what your
cancellation insurance is like.
but you need to look into it.
And Darren's response
was "cancel what?"
I never had
any thoughts of giving up.
but I'm... some of the troops.
asked that question
at a point in time.
a couple of times.
but I think we made that clear
that that wasn't gonna happen.
He was looking
kind of different stuff.
but mentally.
I was just in this state
where I...
I couldn't see the end.
Sometimes when you get
in a bad place in your mind.
even when you realize
what the problems are.
and you start
fixing them. some people.
they just... they want
to dwell on the problems
like from the beginning.
even though you're
solving them as you go.
It wasn't perfect.
There were gonna be
people get stuck.
I was watching it
along on Facebook.
and seeing where the rain...
And people were getting stuck.
and Darren was hauling in rock.
and just wood chips. you know.
all around the margins.
and. uh. told my wife.
I was like
"I think Darren's in trouble."
We... we had
a four-wheel drive pickup.
and we had a tow strap.
you know. which I brought in.
'cause it's. you know.
from what I'd seen
on Facebook.
so. uh... yeah. I was just.
they'd hook it up. and I'd pull.
They didn't worry about it.
Some of them just got stuck.
and went about their business.
and... some of them
moved a little bit.
or whatever. but. you know?
We're all in it together.
You don't really
trust Oklahoma weather.
I figured out.
It might just shut down.
They mightjust
call it at this point.
There was the first night.
it was just raining in sheets
as the main acts were going on.
J“ day is breaking j“
j“ we're gonna start a fire j“
j“ long time waiting j“
j“ flames keep getting higher j“
It was just
like a monsoon soaking.
and it just kept raining
and raining and raining.
J“ we're gonna start a fire j“
j“ hell or heaven j“
everything was
under a hydraulic structure.
we had the walls up on it.
uh. problem was the rain
was coming in sideways.
For about 12 to 16 hours.
and it got the lighting
system completely soaked.
The soak hold.
the consoles were shutting off.
We had to find jet heaters
to keep them going.
Not really sure if you're going
to make it
through the weekend because
the conditions are so terrible.
you're not really sure
if somebody's going to cancel.
or one of the headliners
is gonna decide
he doesn't want to play because
his special effects
aren't working.
When people were coming in.
they were committed
to being there.
And so we were equally
committed to doing what it took
to assist them
to get there and stay there.
Didn't matter
how much it was gonna rain.
once the place was super soaked.
it was super soaked.
The rain and all the mud
and everything. you know.
the situation gets in the way.
and people
don't want to go through that.
And I feel that.
And so you get this
idea in your head.
like "oh. it might be
the same situation for me.
Maybe no one's gonna come out
because it's still muddy.
Maybe no one's
gonna do this." you know?
Where's mikael. do you know?
Mikael. he just went up front.
He just went up to the box.
- The box up...
- That way. Okay.
I swear. I thought
they said mikael was up here.
Two-wheel drive
Honda civics just blast
through the mud
and semis getting stuck.
and forklifts getting stuck.
and people getting stuck.
Tents getting stuck.
Everything getting stuck.
Oh. just didn't ever see that.
That was crazy.
It looked like a war zone.
You know.
people are getting stuck
in the mud right and left.
As an event producer.
you know. you have to start
thinking about "is this...
Are these conditions safe?"
In my mind.
like. I could just see
people. like. not making it.
like. sleeping in their tents.
and like. the water filling up.
and... drowning.
like. it was scaring me.
I just couldn't see
the... I couldn't see it
at the end of it.
You know. okay...
We... we gotta do
what we gotta do.
We... we can't do it.
and basically.
this is when we. need you
to use your social media
to explain to people
what we're up against.
but we're going on anyway.
And it may not be
to the highest quality.
but what else are you gonna do?
We're gonna
shut down and go home?
I don't think so.
So. why can't we communicate
to that. to these kids?
These kids will do it.
and they'll say.
"hey! This is a... this..."
I know. I know.
But I want you to...
I want you to explain to 'em.
because you're always worried
what they're thinking.
Well. fine. tell 'em
what we're thinking.
tell 'em what we're up against.
Ten am. On Friday.
and we just finished
installing the. uh...
The waterproof lighting system.
Mikael was really
concerned with the amount
of water
that the grounds were holding.
He had been. uh. doing some laps
around in the truck.
and checking stuff out.
You know.
it wasn't going my way.
the way that I had an...
Kind of envisioned it.
uh. fall into play.
We're kind of. uh.
assessing the current situation.
At one point...
We're like "should we do this?
Should we not?"
And Darren looks at us.
And he's like
"we've come this far.
we're doing a show.
What do we need
to make it happen?"
It's been raining now for...
I don't know how long.
but it's been raining
for a day. day and a half.
it's supposed
to rain all day today.
it's supposed to. uh...
Maybe kind of stop
sometime
in the morning. I think.
So. hopefully we'll have...
The final day will be. uh...
Have some sunshine for the...
For the... the final big day.
Oh. there's nothing
you can do about it.
What. cancel it?
I surrender. but never give up.
and that surrendering. the fact
that you're not in control is...
It's critical
to being happy and content.
He's a go-getter. you know?
You can't tell him "no."
and he'll be like "okay."
He... you tell him "no."
he'll show you how it's done.
All I can say
is that approaching problems
with daylight is much easier
than trying to contend
with them in the dark.
Anyway. we're heading
south on our road.
and it is a muddy mess.
but it is... it is stable.
it's just... it's got
a lot of skim on it. so...
It just gotta go slow and...
Uh. take it easy.
Then once we get past here.
we'll go down the road.
you'll... it gets.
it's... it's all right.
It's passable.
The weather isn't gonna stop me.
Like. nobody can control that.
That's what they call
an "act of god." right there.
You know what I mean?
Well. I'll just
dump 'em some place else.
What you're telling me. right?
The more I watched Darren
fight to see
this show through...
My mind kept
bringing up the same question.
"Why is this boomer
from Oklahoma so gung-ho
to shell out millions
of dollars on a festival
filled with music
he doesn't even listen to?"
Yeah. are there people
waiting to get in?
Ah. okay. All right.
This question
was driving me crazy
so I sat down
with the only person
willing to give me
a straight answer.
We actually had
a class together.
I was a sophomore.
He was a junior.
and we had speech and drama.
And so we met.
Darren's always
been really directed.
He has a goal. he sets a goal.
and he gets to that goal.
But now he's
much more mellow about it.
I wanted a baby.
so I was like.
"we could go somewhere.
we could adopt one.
we could get a little girl."
because we had three sons.
and he was like
"uh. I don't..." You know.
"I don't want to be
responsible for another life.
I don't want to do it."
And he was like. "get a dog.
Go get that dog you want."
So we got biscuit in 2003.
Darren doesn't sit.
Probably the hardest-working
person I know.
but he always
has to be doing something.
And with biscuit.
he could just sit.
It was for me...
But the dog did
so much more for Darren.
He was getting older.
he was ten.
He had really slowed down.
But I hadn't really
noticed him being sick.
Inoflced
that he slept a lot more.
He was in bed with us.
and I kind of picked him up
and brought him over to me.
and his belly was swollen.
I was like. "what is up?"
And then the next day.
he was super. super skinny.
And so I took him
to the vet that day.
and. um. she did an ultrasound.
and she said.
"I just am not seeing
even that much of a liver left.
He probably. maybe
could live another 30 days
to three months.
if we did a feeding tube."
So I did that.
Our daughter-in-law. Becca.
bless her heart. she was.
you know. in the living room.
and I'm just boo-hooing.
and she's texting Darren
and her husband. Jake.
and it was like.
"biscuit's really. really sick.
You get Linda's. you know.
beside herself. you can..."
And I mean. Darren was just as...
He was like.
"what do we have to do?"
A day or so later.
I got to bring him home.
and our whole
family was mourning
this little 17-pound dog.
Darren went out and found a spot
where. you know.
we wanted him buried.
and... so. you know.
he got that all fixed up.
and he got built this
little rock bench out there.
So that last day.
we were gonna have the vet
come that day.
and he... he didn't need
the vet. cause.
you know. we were all there
in our... our bedroom.
and it was like. two of my sons
were there and my wife and I.
and we... you know.
he was just lying there
in our bed. and you know.
he has that raspy
kind of sound that people make
when they're
breathing as they're...
As they're winding down.
And we just
told him to. you know.
to... to let go.
it... he was... he was okay.
So anyway. he... he
passed away and we buried him.
Biscuit was the catalyst.
That's why I think
he wants to do the festivals.
Biscuit thought
he was bigger than he was.
He liked to chase butterflies.
He would just go nuts
over a butterfly.
and he would run.
and he would jump.
and he would just
do this all the time.
And so while he was dying.
you know.
and I was loving on him
and petting on him.
and you know. I say.
you know.
"baby boy. you can just go.
And then you can
chase all the butterflies...
You want to chase."
This. uh... it made me cry
and it will sound silly
all at the same time.
but. um... so I told him.
I said. "but let me know
that you're okay.
Let me know that you're
chasing those butterflies."
We Bury him.
and I kind of
hang back a little bit.
And this little white butterfly
just started
flying all around me.
This... this is
my dog telling me.
"it's cool. I'm good.
Look. I'm happy. I'm free.
I don't hurt anymore."
And it stayed with me
the whole time I was walking
back to the house.
and I got
just past the tree line
and it went back towards. um.
where we had buried him.
But after that.
just about
every time I went out there.
there would be
a white butterfly.
Whether it's Darren's artwork.
or if you just see
a little white butterfly
attached to something.
well. you have butterflies
kind of scattered throughout.
all of that
is tribute to biscuit.
The hand statue. you know.
and some of this stuff
is kind of evolved
with its own meanings as well.
but the butterfly and the hand
was originally for biscuit.
I don't think
he thought he could be
that connected
to something that wasn't human.
and biscuit let him...
Let him experience that.
Made him a better person.
made him a better father.
made him a better husband.
Saw that he could be
something other than this guy
that his goal was to make money.
There's a lot
to be taken from the hand.
with the butterfly. you know.
it... the...
The bottom of it. you know.
there's the barbed wire
and all that. so the struggle
and all of that.
and then the hand rising up.
And the butterfly. and I think
whether it was conscious
or whether it was unconscious.
and he wanted biscuit
to be a part of it.
I... the hand is opening up.
and this butterfly is there.
and so for me. symbolically.
sometimes I think.
"that's Darren opening up.
and it's biscuit...
That. you know.
brought him to that."
The dog had
a profound impact on Darren
that led to him wanting
for other people.
I think. to feel...
That connection with life.
That... that living things.
that we're all connected.
we're all in this together.
We're... you know. we're one.
It helps you see the importance
of relationships. and. you know.
that hasn't always
been my main goal.
Frankly. it wasn't.
It was to succeed
and all that stuff.
all those trappings
and when you see
how really
unimportant they really are.
that. you know. we're here
today and gone tomorrow.
You... you never know. you know?
You need to... you need
to live... live each day.
because it's... it's gonna end.
and that you gotta
find the joy in living.
As bad as it got.
it was just. like.
"okay. well. this is just
something new
we have to deal with."
You know. it's...
It's just another element
in this show that we're...
We're gonna have to overcome.
Because we've had
such a non-stop rain event.
and it keeps going. that. uh...
State fire marshal said
that we can't use the cryo
or the pyro for now.
until it dries up.
So that's... that's one thing.
The other thing is the lights.
because on the mainstage or so.
uh. the... you know.
they're kind of subject
to the elements.
I can't really keep
the... the water out of it. uh.
they can't be turned on
or else they'll fry.
So we're gonna have to go
heavier on lasers.
and do some
waterproof lights. so...
It's not gonna
necessarily be up completely.
the standards everybody
wanted to do for today.
but you know.
uh. that's on the mainstage.
Pyramid stage. uh. third stage
and second stage
are all good to go fine.
I felt like it would work.
and then it wouldn't.
then it would work.
and it wouldn't.
The... the loads
that I'm getting next.
Tony doesn't want 'em.
He's gonna keep
his trucks running.
so he'll keep
coming out there with you.
And I'm just gonna take...
Go up to there in a minute.
and then we'll dump.
uh. when they get here.
And you tell me where to...
Where to go with them.
- Cool.
- All right. thank you.
J“ I guess you're just broken j“
j“ I guess
you're just hopin' for more j“
you're just reachin' j“
j“ I guess
you're just in need of love j“
j“ but you're not alone j“
j“ you're not alone j“
j“ in this j“
J“ I guess I'm just broken j“
ten minutes!
And we'll have some more rock.
J“ I guess
I'm just hopin' for more j“
where do I want to put the rock?
You want the rock
to just keep coming up here?
Well. we're gonna... okay.
Invested a lot of money
in infrastructure. which...
You know. you weren't gonna
get that back. but...
You know. operationally.
you wanted to try
to get close to breaking even.
or not be too far in the hole.
I mean. this is a tremendous...
It was a big hole.
You just want it in here. then?
All the way over there?
J“ I'm not alone j“
j“ I'm not alone
j“ in this j“
so once it's wet.
it's wet. right?
- Just deal with it. it's...
- That's right.
We'll have more people
to deal with here shortly.
J“ I guess I'm just broken j“
j“ I guess
I'm just hopin' for more j“
the performers.
that they will. like. bail.
or they'll say
it's too wet. or whatever.
or is that
not even really an issue?
J“ I guess
I'm just in need of love j“
j“ I'm not alone j“
we saw no one all day.
the people were
in their tents all day.
and... and I can remember
having the conversation
with the gentlemen.
and I was. like.
"here in a little bit."
Whenever it gets bright lights.
and lasers start going off.
and pyro starts going off.
people are gonna be dancing
in this knee-deep water.
Y'all plan that weather?
Did you book that weather?
Luckily. my shoes
are the same color as the mud.
so. the weather didn't stop me.
You see nothing when you come
through the gate up there.
But on top of the hill
it was. uh...
You seen all the tents.
and. you know. all the people
and. uh. it was overwhelming.
how many people were here
in the middle of the storm.
It's raining.
You got staff frantic.
running around
trying to figure
everything out. you know?
Stage sound cuts out.
They're going out.
they're fixing it.
It's not...
There's no hesitation.
they're just on top of it.
the whole time.
They're figuring out
what the problem is
and they're fixing it.
Well. putting out fires.
you know.
trying to get
the road stabilized.
trying to get people unstuck.
And you know. there's
always a thousand things
that can be done.
need to be done.
And... uh. I did wander around
and... uh. uh.
I had a good experience
in the... in the other barn.
when we had
some of the artists in there
with their lights. and the...
Their music going inside.
And I thought
that was a special time. too.
I... it was really
something I really enjoyed.
The feeling
of walking around and seeing
the whole thing put together
was... was amazing.
I love this place.
I've never played on a stage
that big. regardless.
but I'm honored to be here
and I'm not expecting
anything other
than to have a good time.
It's not always fun
to work in the rain.
but sometimes you have to do
what you don't want to do.
It was good to see people
that were willing
to still be out there
enjoying their music.
We all have
dull parts of our life.
you know. work
that we have to do every week.
But it's always nice to have
something that's important.
that's outside
of our normal context.
that allows you to pull that
familiar person that you are.
put that... that outer skin off.
and. you know.
kind of try to be
something a little different.
Or... or... it's not...
That's not correct.
It's not you trying
to be different.
it's just you trying
to be who you are.
They were dancing
in water knee-deep.
and going hard at it.
and enjoying the time
and they were ready to rock.
They'd been cooped up.
I don't think I looked
in one spot in that field
that was covered
in knee-deep water
that people
weren'tjumping around.
and mud wasn't flying
six foot in the air.
Whenever I'd be able
to find the time.
I'd turn around
and look at the audience.
That's really the one
that you're here for.
To make them happy.
The weather ain't
stopping me. come on.
Some rain? I didn't shower.
Chilled in the rain.
It's like people were
picking up mud and flinging it.
but it was just them
jumping up and down.
The people out there.
those are the real legends.
I thought
we were gonna see an exodus.
but it wasn't.
You know. the bizarre
devotion to. uh...
Staying and... what.
seeing the show
was overwhelming to us.
People were staying for sure.
But we had the hope that.
you know.
at least for the last day.
that... that maybe
the sun would come out.
So it was Saturday
when it finally broke apart.
the storms.
and allowed us to do a show.
That was. like.
the saving grace of everything.
You go through all the rain.
the whole time we've been here.
and then. sure enough.
Saturday shows up. clear skies.
Sunny
now that they experienced that.
it's just gonna be
a whole different vibe.
People are gonna be out in it.
getting crazy... you know.
they don't care about the mud
anymore. it's just sunny.
Everyone's gonna
have a good time.
Despite adversity.
humanity goes on. people go on.
but the human spirit survives
and it overcomes everything
it needs to overcome.
and we go on.
The artists
loved the experience.
for the most part.
They like the eclectic
nature of the buildings.
and how they were treated.
And we want to treat them right.
We want to treat them
like we want to be treated.
and I think
they appreciated that.
But we don't want to...
We don't... we don't...
I... they're...
They're not idols to us.
We try to treat
our guests the same way.
our vip. whatever... whatever
group is we're talking about
needs to be
treated respectfully.
Best part about the festival...
I would say.
is how hospitable they are.
They are so accommodating
to everyone. Everyone.
Artists. staff.
people that are actually here.
you know. the consumers.
the people that come.
miles away. fly here. you know.
They came here. it's raining.
Like. how would that feel?
"I spent a hundred.
two hundred bucks
to get into this festival
and it's raining." you know?
And they're still out there.
like I said.
they're still out there.
fixing it.
doing everything they can
to make it a good time
for everyone.
And I think
that's the best thing.
is that they care so much.
The hospitality.
Everyone here cares.
Everyone's working so hard.
They're actually on top of it.
They don't care that there's
not 7000 people out there.
you know what I mean?
Like. I've played
festivals before
where I didn't get
a meal ticket because
I'm not playing
mainstage. you know?
And here. they...
They're straight
taking care of me.
like. hardcore.
80... and not just me. everyone.
And. like.
everyone from the staff.
to the stage.
to the sound. to the location.
Everything is ten out of ten.
If you've never been
to a music festival.
you're missing one of the most
impactful moments of your life.
There's so much
opportunity out there.
more than
just hearing the music.
It's... it's building
the camaraderie.
It's seeing things
you normally wouldn't see.
and it's... it's a feeling
of gratification inside.
of doing something
that is just...
It's phenomenal.
It's life-changing.
Darren's persistence
on basically every Avenue
is the reason
why it worked. you know.
He pushed us to the limits
to make sure
that it was gonna happen.
I think the... overall.
the success of the festival.
it... you know. financially.
it's not gonna be a success.
but ultimately. financially.
I think it will work out.
because it lays the groundwork
for the next steps.
And you have to go
through that process
to get credibility
to go to the next step.
Ekali finished his set.
The crowd grew silent
as we stood in the mud
at the mainstage.
And I started thinking...
Darren built Bridges
for a living.
allowing people to get
from one place to another.
And the last few days.
I think he provided a way for us
to get to where we needed to be.
Together.
So the show must go on.
It's a term you hear. day in
and day out. in our industry.
Everyone kind of
showed up and made it happen.
It's the end of the world.
and everything is kind of
falling apart around it. and...
You kind of push through it.
and make it happen.
It's always frustrating.
but you can't allow it
to get the best of you.
You just have to figure it out
and keep moving forward.
Oh. it was overwhelming.
The turnout. With the weather.
Just can't imagine
many other venues
that would have stayed.
It was awesome.
Seeing 2000 people there.
just having
the time of their lives.
despite the worst
possible conditions.
It's what gives you life.
For the most part.
I think everything was perfect.
I think it was a great venue.
and I think
a lot of people were happy
with the way
the venue turned out.
I think the biggest
thing was having
the owner of the property
and investor being so involved.
being all hands on deck
whenever he was
asked and needed.
or even whenever he wasn't.
I mean. the guy worked
night and day months.
preparing for just those
three days that we had
out at his property.
Darren wasn't gonna
allow the show not to happen.
You know.
Darren's the whole reason
that that still happened.
On that Sunday. when I drive up.
it wasn't any big deal.
but the people were happy.
But they weren't complaining.
and we were all in it together.
And they saw
that we were in it together.
because they saw
that we were trying to do
what we could to... to try
to get them in there.
Live music
in a festival scene is amazing.
And it... it'll change you.
It really will.
You make connections.
lifelong connections.
There's people
that I worked with.
that are now
lifelong friends. because
a music festival allowed us
to... to cross paths.
Building
the relationships with people.
that's what I was
most excited about.
We essentially
gave a free concert.
If I'd charged them what
it costs. maybe... you know.
we probably wouldn't
have sold many tickets.
I'm really
just excited for the future.
I think that
we've got something here.
We all have struggles in life.
It can be the end all. be all.
or you can overcome adversity.
You can take the struggle
that you're having
and figure out
a solution for it.
and run with it
and get a lesson out of life.
It makes us who we are.
It's what defines our character.
We are much easier
to conquer when we're divided.
You can have
a much better society
with just a pledge
to try to get along.
and not have wars
and try to be fair-minded.
We learn a lot more
from our failures
than we do from our successes.
We just gotta let go
of our egos and quitjudging.
We judge everybody so harshly.
Don't prevent me from dancing
because
you can't hear the music.
I think
there's a lot of truth to that.
A lot of us are actually
dancing to the music.
and the other people
can't hear it.
As they worked together.
under horrible circumstances...
It was nine inches of rain
and the Sandy soil.
That. to him. I think.
solidified what he's thinking.
trying to get people
to listen to one another.
When people sacrifice together.
for whatever the cause is.
I mean...
It's easier to get things done.
The hardship.
the struggle and the suffering
actually makes
the experience grander.
We have to resolve
the spiritual crisis.
Whether we want
to call it that or not.
because it... who are
we and why are we here?
It's been
over a year since daybreak.
We've had to weather
a lot of storms since then.
With COVID-19...
Riots and the nation
fighting for political power.
I take hope. though.
when I think about daybreak.
Watching people charge
into the storm in the mud
to take care of each other.
I like to believe
there was a force of life
behind that event.
A small dog dies.
A little farmer's enlightened.
And 2000 people
at daybreak learn
what it means to be human.
It really puts things
into perspective.
How a little
consideration and love
make a huge difference.
Darren knows that.
And that's why
he's dedicated his ranch
to creating events
that bring people together.
Darren...
Well. he's fighting
for a better tomorrow.
He's fighting for the daybreak.
J“ daybreak's in a single man j“
j“ with one hammer
and two hands j“
j“ he begins
with a nail and plank j“
j“ steel pushing
through the wood grain j“
j“ all the racket he makes
from his one-man crew j“
j“ that draws another man
seeking to build. too j“
j“ now with four strong arms
and one desire j“
j“ now it's moving along
in double time j“
j“ hey brother. it's time
to put your hands on j“
j“ cause we 're building
a stage to stand on j“
j“ oh. we're building
j“ getting taller and taller j“
j“ from the ground
it began on j“
j“ and we're building
a stage to stand on j“
j“ oh. we're building
j“ when the day breaks again j“
j“ the two men return
to where they've been j“
j“ to see
the crowd of people gathered j“
j“ with their saws
ropes and ladders j“
j“ the cast of workers
hoist and heave j“
j“ and their labor sounds
much like a symphony j“
j“ so many hands and heads
composing it j“
j“ the last dance closer.
closing in j“
j“ hey brother. it's time
to put your hands on j“
j“ cause we 're building
a stage to stand on j“
j“ oh. we're building
j“ getting taller and taller j“
j“ from the ground
it began on j“
j“ and we're building
a stage to stand on j“
j“ oh. we 're a building
J“ and we're building
a stage to stand on j“
J“ and it happens j“
j“ the pounding ceases j“
j“ and on the land
the structure stands j“
j“ made from
thousands of pieces j“
j“ illuminated j“
j“ standing strong j“
j“ the stage is finished now j“
j“ built for all to stand on j“
j“ whoo j“